well howdy there internet people it's bo
again
so today we're going to talk about
blaming bob woodward
that's apparently the president's next
move in his attempt to squirm
out of this is to blame woodward
and there's a lot of people who seem
willing to accept this narrative
i don't know that they should but before
we get too far into this i feel like i
should make a disclosure
i have read everything
woodward has pretty much ever written
i'm a huge
fan the character deep goat
that sometimes appears on this channel
is a nod to his work
woodward is a long format investigative
journalist
that's what he does that's his job
the theory is that if woodward would
come out with this back then back in
march
that everything would have been
different
uh i don't think that's true i don't
think that's true
because the reality is everybody knew
that the president
knew this logically everybody
knew that the fact that he knew it
that's not a surprise and that's not the
story
what makes woodward's work effective
is that it shows the date that he knew
at least a date that we know we can
confirm that he knew this stuff
and then you can contrast it with what
he said publicly
had this been released at the time most
americans would go yeah we know this
and it wouldn't have mattered to most
people because trump would have just
spun it
one little comment and he would have
and it would have disappeared like magic
just would have gone away it wouldn't
have had the impact
that it does
we all knew everything that was in those
tapes
and we knew the president knew
and i get to do something now that i
have been waiting to do
since january
on january 23rd i released a video the
first video
i released talking about this subject
and i tried to convey calm i said there
wasn't much to worry about
i talked about how the fact that some
people were asymptomatic
well that was a worry because it could
help it spread
i talked about how we'd probably have to
distance from each other social
distancing hadn't
come into the popular vocabulary i
didn't use that term
talked about having to wash your hands
sneeze into a tissue
or the crease of your arm talked about
how
we might have to shut down cities
i am nowhere near as plugged in as the
president
or bob woodward and i knew in january
it's not a surprise that the president
knew
the reason woodward's work is effective
is because
he gathers all of the information and he
puts it into a story
so those who don't follow the events
every single day
can get it all at once that's why he's
bob woodward
that's why he is probably america's
best known most celebrated journalists
that's the reason had he just dropped
the
the audio then nobody would have cared
but now it stops us hopefully
from having the same poor leadership
that we've had he informed the american
people
and he's giving them a choice do you
want this for another four years or not
we all knew now
in that video back in january i wasn't
worried
in fact i kind of made a joke about some
of it saying i don't think it's time to
break out gas masks
because we have public health officials
we have people who this is what they do
and they're good at their job in fact
the last line in that video
is something to the effect of do what
you do let them
do what they do
that's actually what woodward is showing
to the american people
that the president didn't do that he
didn't let the experts do their job
he didn't follow their lead he actively
undermined their work and it cost
tens of thousands of american lives
it helped it spread all over the world
that's the value of woodward's work
everybody knew back then that the
president was aware of this
it was on every every single
network television station everybody was
broadcasting this information
it's not a surprise that he knew
it's the clear demonstration of the
contrast
between what he knew what he was willing
to admit
privately versus what he was telling the
american people
had he said what he said privately
in public he would have been backing up
the public health professionals
those people who are good at their job
who were trying to mitigate
and it would have made a difference but
he didn't do that
he chose to look out for himself and his
approval rating
rather than the american people
that's the story that's the news and
that story
wouldn't have existed if woodward had
released this back then
just would have been another bump that
the president wouldn't
would have been able to spin or deflect
blame on somebody else his base was just
oh it's just an offhand comment
of course he knows that it's a lot
harder to do
it with months of him denying it
with months of him putting american
lives at risk
the thing about it and i'm pretty
certain that i can say this
if you want to drag woodward's name
through the mud for this
i'm pretty sure he'll be okay with it
his name's been through worse
but i don't think it's fair
his job his form of journalism
what he does is exactly what he did
and yeah in a perfect world
he could have released that video that
audio
back then and it would have made a
difference
but we don't live in a perfect world if
we lived in a perfect world
we wouldn't have a president who would
lie to the american people about a
public health issue
for months
let's just hope that
next year there are people who
will listen to the experts who won't
actively undermine their work
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day